---
layout: default
assigned: 2023-04-20 14:00
description: 'Set up Kanban board for team01'
due: 2023-04-20 15:15
title: p06
layout: default
canvas_assignment_link: TBD
qxx: s23
5pm_1: https://github.com/orgs/ucsb-cs156-s23/projects/2
5pm_2: https://github.com/orgs/ucsb-cs156-s23/projects/3
5pm_3: https://github.com/orgs/ucsb-cs156-s23/projects/4
5pm_4: https://github.com/orgs/ucsb-cs156-s23/projects/5
6pm_1: https://github.com/orgs/ucsb-cs156-s23/projects/6
6pm_2: https://github.com/orgs/ucsb-cs156-s23/projects/7
6pm_3: https://github.com/orgs/ucsb-cs156-s23/projects/8
6pm_4: https://github.com/orgs/ucsb-cs156-s23/projects/9
7pm_1: https://github.com/orgs/ucsb-cs156-s23/projects/10
7pm_2: https://github.com/orgs/ucsb-cs156-s23/projects/11
7pm_3: https://github.com/orgs/ucsb-cs156-s23/projects/12
7pm_4: https://github.com/orgs/ucsb-cs156-s23/projects/13
example_board: https://github.com/orgs/ucsb-cs156-s23/projects/14
---

See also, this assignment on Canvas: <{{page.canvas_assignment_link}}>

# Introducting Today's Team Activity (2:00-2:30)

Today's activity involves populating a [Kanban board](https://ucsb-cs156.github.io/topics/kanban/) for team01.

Here are links to those kanban boards:

| 5pm | 6pm | 7pm |
|-----|-----|-----|
| [5pm-1]({{page.5pm_1}}) | [6pm-1]({{page.6pm_1}}) | [7pm-1]({{page.7pm_1}}) | 
| [5pm-2]({{page.5pm_2}}) | [6pm-2]({{page.6pm_2}}) | [7pm-2]({{page.7pm_2}}) | 
| [5pm-3]({{page.5pm_3}}) | [6pm-3]({{page.6pm_3}}) | [7pm-3]({{page.7pm_3}}) | 
| [5pm-4]({{page.5pm_4}}) | [6pm-4]({{page.6pm_4}}) | [7pm-4]({{page.7pm_4}}) | 
{:.table .table-sm .table-striped .table-bordered}

You will also need to consult this Kanban board, which is an example for you to follow:

* [team01 example kanban board]({{page.example_board}})


# Step 0: Big Picture

Here's the big picture for team01:

* The team01 starter code has examples of CRUD operations for Restaurants with name/description
* You are going to add three more items to the Navbar for three things of your own choosing, each of which has at least three data fields. These could be anything you might want to be able to keep track of in a web application.
* For example, you might choose: Hotels, Movies, Books.
* You'll initially divide into three pairs, A, B and C, and then divide up the work 
  - For example, suppose Chris and Jin are on pair A, and they are working on Hotels
  - They probably should initially pair on the hotelFixtures.js and hotelUtilities.js
  - Then, Chris might initially work on the HotelForm, while Jin works on the HotelTable.
  - Then Chris might add the HotelCreate and HotelEdit pages, while Jin works on the HotelIndex and HotelDetails pages
  - However, that's just one way to divide up the work.  Another is that Chris and Jin could "pair program" on all of it.
  - How you divide up the work is up to you.
  - And: ultimately, the entire team is responsible for the entire effort, so help one another out as much as you can.
* Full instructions for team01 are coming soon, but as an overview: you'll be finished with team01 when you have:
  - A working web app for all three of the new items you added (plus the old stuff for Towns and Restaurants still works)
  - There is 100% test coverage both from `npm run coverage` and `npx stryker run`
  - `npx eslint --fix .` reports no problems
  - Everything is "green on CI", i.e. GitHub Actions gives you a green check, not a red X.
  - There are storybook stories published on the companion documentation site (more explanation on this later)
  - The README for your repo has a link to the companion documentation site.
  - You've turned in a link to your team01 repo on Canvas.

Today's work is to set up a Kanban board for you to track your efforts on the team01 project.

# Step 1: Make sure every team member has access to the board

Each team member should make sure they can bring up the team's Kanban board.

You can do this by making a post on your team's slack channel.

To reduce noise in the channel:
* The first person should post "I can access the team kanban board at" (then post the link).
* Everyone else can add a reply to that thread with "me too" or "I'm having trouble".

# Step 2: One member of the team: add the column for "In Review"

If you look at your team's board, you'll see that you have three columns; this is the default for a Kanban board in GitHub Projects.

Our practice, however, is to have another column between "In Progress" and "Done" called "In Review".

See, for example, the example board here: 
* [team01 example kanban board]({{page.example_board}})

Choose one member of the team to create that column with the name "In Review", the description "This is ready for code review" and the color "Pink".

# Step 3: Divide the team into pairs

Divide the six people on your team into pairs, and post on your team's slack channel how you are dividing up the work.

* Pair A
* Pair B
* Pair C

Then each of the three pairs will decide on some kind of object that you can use as the basis of building CRUD operations similar to the ones in the STARTER-team01 code for Restaurants.

Make a post to the slack channel in which you:
* Identify who is in your pair
* State what you are going to build, and list what fields it will have.
  - Example: Hotel: name, address, description

# Step 4: Add tasks to your Kanban board

In GitHub projects, you can add two types of things to the columns on your Kanban board:

* Cards: Cards have very short text descriptions and appear only on the Kanban board.
* Issues: Issues are associated with a particular repo, and can have longer descriptions, and lots of additional data

For today, we'll just start out with cards.

In a later exercise, we'll show how to turn those into issues.

Divide into your pairs, and create the following cards in your TODO column for your item.  For sake of this example, I'll use "Hotel", but you should substitute your own item.

Add the following cards:

* Add hotelFixtures.js (example objects for testing)
* Add hotelUtilities.js (CRUD for Browser Local Storage)
* Add HotelForm component (form for create/edit)
* Add HotelTable component (table for index/details)
* Add HotelIndexPage (including link to it in navbar)
* Add HotelDetailsPage
* Add HotelCreatePage
* Add HotelEditPage

When you are done, there should be 24 cards in all.
